RFC 7030 defines the Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST) protocol, which is used for securely managing X.509 certificates in a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI). It specifies how clients can request and receive certificates from an EST server using HTTPS and TLS for secure communication.
Search Results

Enrollment over Secure Transport
Wikipedia

RFC 7030
RFC Editor
Is there a Python implementation?  a C implementation?  A Rust implementation?

Search
Python Implementation of RFC 7030 (EST Protocol)

A Python implementation of the EST protocol is available in the est-client-python library. This library allows clients to interact with EST servers for certificate enrollment and management according to RFC 7030.
Repository: est-client-python
Key Features:
Retrieve CA certificates.
Create and enroll certificate signing requests (CSRs).
Support for basic authentication.
Example usage:
python
Copy Code
client = est.client.Client(host, port, implicit_trust_anchor_cert_path)
csr_attrs = client.csrattrs()
client_cert = client.simpleenroll(csr)
C Implementation of RFC 7030 (EST Protocol)

For C language implementations, the libest library provided by Cisco is a popular option. This library supports various features of the EST protocol.
Repository: libest
Key Features:
Implements core EST operations such as /cacerts, /simpleenroll, and /simplereenroll.
Support for various platforms and customizable TLS backends.
A less complex alternative is available in lgtti/rfc7030-est-client.
Rust Implementation of RFC 7030 (EST Protocol)

Currently, there is limited public information on a Rust implementation of the EST protocol. As of now, finding a comprehensive library in Rust may require building your own client based on the RFC specifications or integrating EST support into an existing framework.
Consider exploring: Building from scratch using standard libraries in Rust to handle HTTP and TLS communication.
Summary of Implementations

LANGUAGE	IMPLEMENTATION LINK	KEY FEATURES
Python	est-client-python	Simple API for enrollment, basic auth, CSR handling
C	libest	Comprehensive support for EST operations, platform customizable TLS backends
C	lgtti/rfc7030-est-client	Pluggable client compatible with various SSL libraries
Rust	No established implementations found; consider custom development based on RFC.	N/A
 Feel free to ask if you need more details or specific examples for any of these implementations!
Search Results

Creating a simple Enrollment over Secure Transport...
WordPress

RFC 7030
IETF

are there libraries for the server side of EST (for example to create a proxy)

.
GPT-4o mini
Libraries for Server-Side Implementation of EST (RFC 7030)

Several libraries and frameworks facilitate server-side implementation of the Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST) protocol, including the potential to create an EST proxy.
C Library for EST Server Implementation

1. libest

Link: libest
Description:
This library, developed by Cisco, supports both client and server-side implementations of the EST protocol.
It is well-suited for building a server that can manage enrollment and certificate requests.
Key Features:
Implements core EST functionalities.
Customizable for different server environments.
Supports various authentication methods.
Python Library for EST Server Implementation

2. django-est

Link: django-est (part of jwt-identity)
Description:
This library provides a simplified way to manage X.509 certificates and can be extended to create an EST server.
Key Features:
Integrates well with Django's authentication framework.
Can handle certificate requests in a web server context.
Java Library for EST Server Implementation

3. est-server

Link: est-server
Description:
A Java-based EST server implementation that can be integrated into applications requiring certificate enrollment.
Key Features:
Full support for EST operations as described in RFC 7030.
Configurable storage backends for certificate management.
Potential to Create a Proxy

To create a proxy for an EST server:
Use standard web server frameworks (such as Flask in Python or Express in Node.js) to route requests to different EST endpoints.
Implement common features such as request validation, certificate caching, and logging to enhance the proxy's functionality.
Summary of Libraries

LANGUAGE	LIBRARY/FRAMEWORK	DESCRIPTION
C	libest	Comprehensive client and server support for EST operations.
Python	django-est	Server-side capabilities integrated within a Django context.
Java	est-server	Full EST support for Java applications.
 If you’re looking for specific functionalities or need assistance with implementation details, let me know!

what about an adapter that would use EST on one side and lets encrypt or Microsoft protocols on the other.

.
GPT-4o mini
Adapter for EST and Let's Encrypt / Microsoft Protocols

Creating an adapter that allows a system to use Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST) on one side while interfacing with Let's Encrypt or Microsoft protocols (like ACME for certificate issuance) on the other is an interesting challenge. Here’s a breakdown of the approaches and libraries that could be used:
Overview of Protocols

EST: Protocol for enrollment of certificates using a secure transport layer, typically involving interactions with an existing Certificate Authority (CA).
Let's Encrypt: Uses the Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) protocol for issuing and renewing certificates.
Microsoft Protocols: Often involve protocols like Network Device Enrollment Service (NDES) or Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol (SCEP).
Possible Adapter Implementations

1. Using a Custom Middleware

You could implement a custom middleware that serves as an adapter:
Functionality:
Intercepts requests from EST clients.
Translates those requests into appropriate Let's Encrypt or Microsoft (SCEP/NDES) commands and vice versa.
Technologies:
Python: Using Flask or Django.
Node.js: Using Express.js for handling HTTP requests.
Java: Spring Boot could be handy for implementing REST APIs.
2. Existing Libraries

While there may not be a direct library that combines these protocols, you can leverage various existing libraries to build the adapter.
For Let's Encrypt (ACME):
Python: Use certbot, which is the official Let's Encrypt client.
Certbot
Can be called programmatically to issue and renew certificates.
For Microsoft Protocols (SCEP/NDES):
SCEP libraries:
OpenSCEP: An open-source implementation of SCEP.
OpenSCEP
3. Session and State Management

Use a database or in-memory store (like Redis) to manage the state and session data between requests to ensure coherent certificate handling and renewals.
Adapter Workflow Example

Client Request:
An EST client initiates a certificate enrollment request.
Adapter (Middleware):
The adapter processes the request and converts it to Let's Encrypt's ACME request or SCEP request as appropriate.
Certificate Issuance:
The adapter receives the response from Let's Encrypt or the Microsoft protocol and provides the certificate back to the EST client.
Renewal Handling:
Implement periodic checks for certificate validity and renewals via the adapter, utilizing the respective protocol commands.
Considerations

Security: Ensure proper validation and secure handling of private keys.
Error Handling: Implement robust error handling for the various protocols, especially given the different semantics between them.
Logging and Monitoring: Useful for tracking certificate requests and system health.
Summary

Creating an adapter that connects EST with Let's Encrypt or Microsoft protocols involves custom development leveraging existing libraries for both ends. While direct libraries may not exist for this specific use case, using middleware to handle conversions and requests is a viable approach. If you'd like to focus on a specific implementation area or need examples, feel free to ask!

please write a prompt for an AI to write such an adapter using Python


.
GPT-4o mini
Here's a prompt you can use to guide an AI in writing a Python adapter that connects the Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST) protocol with Let's Encrypt or Microsoft protocols:
Prompt for AI

Objective: Write a Python adapter that enables communication between the Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST) protocol and the Let's Encrypt ACME protocol (or Microsoft SCEP protocol). The adapter should handle certificate enrollment requests from EST clients and translate them into requests suitable for Let's Encrypt or Microsoft, managing both issuance and renewal processes.
Requirements:
Framework: Use Flask or FastAPI for implementing the HTTP server.
Components:
Handle incoming EST requests for certificate enrollment.
Convert those requests into the appropriate Let's Encrypt ACME or Microsoft SCEP requests.
Implement secure communication practices (use HTTPS, validate incoming requests).
Manage state and session data (e.g., using a database or in-memory store like Redis).
Functionality:
Implement endpoints for:
/enroll for handling EST enrollment requests.
/renew for renewing certificates.
Log request and response data for auditing purposes.
Handle errors gracefully and return meaningful HTTP responses.
Libraries: Utilize relevant libraries such as requests for making HTTP calls to Let's Encrypt or Microsoft services and cryptography for managing certificates if needed.
Documentation: Include comments and a README file explaining how to set up and run the adapter, detailing dependencies and configuration steps.
Example Interaction:
An EST client sends a POST request to /enroll.
The adapter processes the request, generates a corresponding ACME or SCEP request, and sends it.
The adapter returns the certificate to the EST client in the appropriate format.
Additional Considerations:
Ensure the adapter is designed with extensibility in mind, enabling future integrations with other certificate authorities or protocols as needed.

